antibodies/index.md, before:

---
title: Antibodies
---

<nav>
    <ol class="breadcrumb px-0 bg-transparent">
        <li class="breadcrumb-item">
            <a href="{{ site.baseurl }}/">HOME</a>
        </li>
        <li class="breadcrumb-item">
            ANTIBODIES
        </li>
    </ol>
</nav>

## Antibodies for tissue-based CyCIF

To date, we have tested commercial antibodies against ~200 proteins for their
compatibility with t-CyCIF. These antibodies include lineage makers,
cytoskeletal proteins, cell cycle regulators, the phosphorylated forms of
signaling proteins and kinases, transcription factors, markers of cell state
including quiescence, senescence, apoptosis, stress, etc.


##### [Antibodies Tested for Tissue-based CyCIF (Master table, May 2018)]({{ "antibodies/tcycif-master" | relative_url }})

300 antibodies listed in this table as of May, 2018.

##### [Core Antibodies for tCyCIF (Image available, November 2018)]({{ 'antibodies/tcycif-core' | relative_url}})

A subset of 41 antibodies from the master table. Tissue IF images are available for antibodies in the list.

Commit message:

Change wording from ZM and fix typo

antibodies/index.md, after:

---
title: Antibodies
---

<nav>
    <ol class="breadcrumb px-0 bg-transparent">
        <li class="breadcrumb-item">
            <a href="{{ site.baseurl }}/">HOME</a>
        </li>
        <li class="breadcrumb-item">
            ANTIBODIES
        </li>
    </ol>
</nav>

## Antibodies for tissue-based CyCIF

To date, we have tested commercial antibodies against ~200 proteins for their
compatibility with t-CyCIF. These antibodies include lineage makers,
cytoskeletal proteins, cell cycle regulators, the phosphorylated forms of
signaling proteins and kinases, transcription factors, markers of cell state
including quiescence, senescence, apoptosis, stress, etc.


##### [Antibodies Tested for Tissue-based CyCIF (Master table, May 2018)]({{ "antibodies/tcycif-master" | relative_url }})
The qualified list of 300 antibodies used in our foundational tissue CyCIF paper ([Lin, et al. eLife 2018]({{ site.baseurl }}/publications#lin-elife-2018-paper)).

##### [Recommended antibodies for tCyCIF (Core, Nov 2018)]({{ 'antibodies/tcycif-core' | relative_url}})

Representative images of antibody staining patterns for a subset of 41 (and growing) antibodies ([Lin, et al. eLife 2018]({{ site.baseurl }}/publications#lin-elife-2018-paper)).
